>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaia Inspirations."
And our topic for this series,
taped at this Celebrate Your
Life Conference here
in Phoenix, Arizona,
is to explore the
"I am" meaning.
And joining me is a
teacher of self-development
for over 46 years, Denise Linn.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>> DENISE LINN: Thank
you for having me.
>>LISA: So the "I
am" meaning, we've
been exploring this topic
in our conversation.
What does "I am" mean to you?
>>LINN: I use those words a lot.
And I use those words as a way
of centering and grounding.
And I say I am enough.
And adding that enough to it, I
spent so many years of my life
feeling like I'm not enough.
But to say, I am enough,
what that says to me is here,
now, in this moment, no
matter what the past has been,
no matter what's going to
happen in the future, I am.
I am here with you.
I am here in this place.
I am enough simply
being here now.
So I love those words.
And then I love
adding enough to it.
>>LISA: Well, you say it too,
it really centers and grounds
the entire room.
And listening to
you say those words,
it seems to just put
everything into present time,
and organizes it.
It's got a beautiful
energy to it.
And you could easily
be a person that
could live in your past and
the traumas of your past.
Your story is absolutely--
there's a lot of trauma there,
but you don't seem to carry that
trauma over with you, do you?
>>LINN: It doesn't define me.
I don't forget it, but I don't
allow it to become who I am.
>>LISA: When you say that
you're not allowing your past
to define you, how do you
teach people to reframe trauma?
And I know it's not as
simple as one answer.
>>LINN: A really important
aspect is forgiveness.
And you cannot forgive
until you're ready.
And that's OK.
And some people
think that they have
to forget in order to forgive.
You don't have to forget.
And some people think
forgiveness means
you have to forgive the act.
I don't forgive the
act of child abuse.
I don't forgive the act of rape.
And I don't think we need to.
However, there's a difference
between forgiving the act
and forgiving the person.
And it is possible to
forgive someone what they
did not for them, but for you.
Because as you hold on to
that anger, resentment,
and bitterness, it
eats away at you.
And in terms of your past, to be
able to forgive what others did
to you, and forgive
yourself for what
you did to others, because we're
not perfect, that's what heals.
And to make the distinction
of forgiving the individual,
but you do not need
to forgive the act,
I think that is an important
distinction for healing.
>>LISA: Yes.
We did another show where you
were on one of my Gaia shows,
and we talked about
your story in depth.
And it was the first
time that I had heard it.
And briefly, you
were 16 years old.
Then you were on your motorbike,
and somebody shot you.
>>LINN: Right.
>>LISA: And you still have
the wounds in your body.
>>LINN: I do, yeah.
>>LISA: Somehow, miraculously,
you survived this.
>>LINN: I did.
And it sounds so dramatic.
You know, I was on my motorbike
and a guy ran into me.
And then he came
back and shot me,
and he had actually killed
a number of other women.
But actually, that was less
traumatic than the kind
of very dysfunctional
family that I had.
And it doesn't
sound as dramatic,
but I had a mother who was
mentally ill and very violent.
And I had a father who was
sexually abusive to his girls.
And those wounds
went much deeper.
And it was a much longer
journey to release
the damage and the
woundedness from those
than it was from being shot.
Although it doesn't
sound as dramatic.
>>LISA: Wow.
Wow.
That's saying a lot, though.
When you look back into
the ancestral patterns,
and this is something
that you talk a lot about,
is looking at the
ancestral pattern
of the shooter, the ancestral
pattern of your father
and your mother.
When you look back, does that
allow you to forgive them more?
>>LINN: Well, there's a
couple of things here.
One, almost everybody is doing
the best they can at the time.
And you think, well,
how can the guy?
He was shooting.
He could have done
better than that.
But given someone's
upbringing, their parents,
the beliefs of the society
they were raised in,
the kind of ways they were
programmed by their family,
by their society,
by their religion,
there but for the
act of God go I.
So when you begin to
understand that everybody
is acting according
to their upbringing,
and their upbringing is a result
of their parents' upbringing,
and it keeps going
back generations.
And they've done some
really interesting research.
It's called the
ancestral syndrome.
And they found that trauma
travels through the genes,
for example.
It's fascinating.
But there's even things
that almost seem esoteric,
but it's as a result
of scientific research.
Religion travels
through the genes.
And so when there is trauma, for
example, if that is traveling,
if your great grandparents
had trauma, literally,
there's a biochemical
ship that goes generation
after generation.
And they've done
research with mice.
And they'll program
mice to really dislike
the smell of-- what is it?
Sweet cherry.
And then what they've
found is generations later,
mice will have an
aversion to that,
even though they were never
exposed to it, because it
travels through the genes.
>>LISA: The genes, yes.
>>LINN: And so I do work
with past life regression,
but I also do work with going
back into early childhood,
and beginning to unweave
some of those patterns,
but also to trace
our ancestors back.
And the Western culture is
one of the few cultures that
doesn't revere the ancestors,
honor the ancestors,
and actually think
about the ancestors.
And to the extent
that you can discover
what those patterns were, and
where they live inside of you,
is to the extent that you
can begin to release them.
>>LISA: So your background
Native American, yes?
>>LINN: On my mother's side.
On my father's
side, I'm Scottish.
So that's Scottish.
>>LISA: So have you traced back
any of those ancestral patterns
from your mother's side
and your father's side?
>>LINN: Well, on
my mother's side,
her ancestors, my ancestors,
traveled on the Trail of Tears.
Now, the Trail of
Tears was, in brief,
where a number of
nations, including
my nation, the
Cherokee Nation, were
forced off their
ancestral lands, forced
to walk across most of the
United States, and end up in--
and they lived in a
very fertile land.
They were farmers-- and given
this barren land in Oklahoma.
And when the soldiers
talk about that march,
the people were stoic.
A child would die,
and they were only
allowed to stop every three
days to bury the dead.
So they would carry
the dead child.
And the soldiers
were so impressed,
because the people
did not complain.
A brother would carry
a sister who had died.
They would carry the dead
without-- there was also
carts-- without complaining.
And on one hand, I love the
fact that my ancestors were
so stoic, but on the other hand,
my grandmother, my grandfather,
they were really stoic.
So it was in my immediate
ancestry as well,
but when you're
stoic, underneath that
is the fact that you're
suffering and not
speaking about it.
>>LISA: Numb.
>>LINN: And when
I was growing up,
the horrific things were
happening to me behind
closed doors, horrific things.
And I was stoic.
I never told anybody.
And so, in a way, that
pattern that perhaps served
my ancestors lived in me.
And now when something is not
right, I'll let people know.
I will raise my voice, because I
have broken that stoic pattern.
>>LISA: That's
important right there.
When you raise your voice
and say, this is wrong,
this is unjust--
>>LINN: And you take a stand.
>>LISA: And you take a stand.
In that energy, you don't
care what anybody thinks.
You don't have any
concern there, do you?
>>LINN: No, I deeply
care what people think,
and I'm willing to speak my
truth in spite of the fact
that I care.
And that, to me, is power.
>>LISA: You deeply
care what people think?
>>LINN: I do.
Of course, but I
mean in the context
where, if you hurt
feelings, it doesn't matter.
>>LISA: It does matter.
I don't like hurting
feelings, and I
am willing to hurt
feelings if to not do
so means that I am stoically
not speaking my heart,
not speaking my truth.
>>LISA: Yes, yes.
So if somebody is to
be offended by it,
it's most likely because there's
an inauthenticity in there
that you need to address?
>>LINN: Do you
know, I can't speak
for why other
people are offended,
and I mostly only speak
from what's real for me.
Because we just
don't know what's
going on with someone
else, so I'll just say this
is true for me.
This is not working for me.
This is what I feel is right
for me in this situation.
>>LISA: So going back to
the ancestral patterns,
do you see that in other
people through intuition?
How do you see that?
And regression?
How do you find that pattern?
>>LINN: I love
the inner journey.
Because deep inside of
us, we know the truth.
The soul knows the truth.
And when we were thinking about
it, that's hard to find it.
But when we take time to
become still, and just
sink into that place,
we can find it.
And so one of the ways
that I work with people
is I take them on
inner journeys, what
I call inner journeys.
They get so relaxed that
they can begin to explore,
to step back in time.
And even if you don't
know your ancestors,
their voices are within you,
their blood is within you.
And you can almost
begin to trace it back.
And you can also access the
talents, and the abilities,
the qualities that they had.
Because that's in you too.
So it's not just
breaking the-- you know.
>>LISA: The patterns,
the negative patterns
if you have them.
>>LINN: The pattern, thank you.
Yeah.
>>LISA: But you can also bring--
that's an interesting point.
>>LINN: And it's fantastic.
>>LISA: So you can tap back
into those ancestral patterns
and those talents.
Have you done that?
>>LINN: I have, and I
love it when I do that.
Because I think of my ancestors
on the Trail of Tears,
and I think, if
they could do that,
if they could survive
that, I could survive.
I have that blood in me.
And we all have ancestors who
have had horrific things happen
to them, and they survived.
And to be able to grab it
and pull it into this moment,
there's power in that.
And I believe we can
call upon our ancestors.
And this is not a new thought.
I mean, there are
probably more cultures
in the world that have, they
call it ancestor worship.
To me, it's not worship.
It's honoring.
And when you honor the
ancestors, they're here.
And even in simple ways.
My dad could fix anything.
He was just one of those
guys that could fix anything.
And I remember we had
a dishwasher disposal,
and it wasn't working.
And my husband, who'd
been a contractor
and done plumbing contractor
stuff, and he was like,
oh, it can't be fixed.
We've got to call in
someone professional.
And I knew if my dad was there,
I thought he could fix it.
So I just got really quiet,
and I said, you know, dad,
would you come here?
And I reached, and I don't
even know what I did,
and I fixed it.
And I knew it wasn't me.
I was calling upon--
and my husband's
like, how did you that?
I'm like, my dad did it.
But you can call
upon your ancestors.
In homes around the world,
there's ancestor altars.
Some people have houses.
In Africa, I've spent time
with the Zulu in Africa,
and they really honor
their ancestors.
They call upon their ancestors.
When I was with the Zulu-- I
mean the Maoris in New Zealand,
once again, they will call out
the names of their ancestors.
When I was in China,
they honor the ancestors.
Why?
Why would they honor ancestors
for thousands of years?
Well, it works.
So we have angels
and guardian angels,
but why not ancestors too?
Get all the help you can get.
>>LISA: Those that
truly walked the earth
and that you knew when they
were in your bloodline,
to tap into that, there
is a frequency that
goes backwards and forwards.
So you also tap into different
frequencies with space
clearings that you use.
>>LINN: I do.
>>LISA: So what if there are
beings and so forth that you
don't invite in, that are
not part of your tribe,
that use energies
and frequencies
that are not welcome?
How do you clear those?
>>LINN: Well, let
me take a step back.
For many years, when
I traveled the world,
I sought out those in native
cultures, who were still
living in a natural way.
Because I felt that they
had knowledge and wisdom
that we have lost.
And so much of it is dying.
Those elders, when
they die, a lot of them
have not passed it on.
One of the things that I
found in native cultures
around the world
was space clearing.
Or I called it space clearing.
I wrote a few books
on it, and now there's
lots of books called
space clearing.
I coined the word,
and I thought, gee,
they're going to think that--
I thought, space clearing?
It's like you're up
in space with a broom.
But I couldn't think
of another word,
so I named it space clearing.
>>LISA: Oh, you
created that word?
>>LINN: Yeah.
>>LISA: Fantastic, yes.
>>LINN: I did.
And I was surprised it took off.
>>LISA: It's a meme now.
Yes, yes.
>>LINN: But again,
space clearing
has been around
because it works.
And even the largest
realtor in Manhattan
was having-- anyway, I won't
say who it was, but anyway,
they were having
trouble-- it's written up
at the New York Times--
selling these high end
buildings in New York.
And they weren't selling.
And so the head of
this corporation
got some space clearers in.
And those buildings
began turning over.
And she said, I
don't believe it.
You know, I think it's
weird, but it works.
So back to your
question, I just need
to give a little understanding,
because some people might be
going, what is space clearing?
>>LISA: I know.
That's great.
>>LINN: In some cultures,
they use bells, some gongs,
some salt, sometimes chanting,
sometimes ash, sometimes Native
American, that's drumming,
and sage, and smoke.
People use what they have.
>>LISA: Let's take a look
at this video here of Denise
talking about space clearing
and talking about some
of the things that she uses.
Take a look.
>>LINN: Hi, I'm
Denise Linn, and it
is an honor and a
delight to have this time
to connect with you.
So when would you use
some of these methods
that you're going to
learn in these videos?
All right.
Have you ever walked into
a room after an argument,
and it feels thick, doesn't it?
It's like you're kind of
walking through molasses.
Instantly by using
space clearing methods,
and I'm like I said, I'm
going to show you some,
you can clear out that energy.
What about when you
move into a new home?
Do not move into a new home
unless it's been cleared.
Even if the people
were great, you
want to implant your energy,
your intention for the time
that you live in that home.
How about a divorce?
When someone has gone
through a divorce,
sometimes the energy
can feel really bad.
You want to cleanse it and
clear it, especially the bed.
And if you can't, get a new bed.
If you can't do space
clearing, a lot of space
clearing, to clear
out that old energy
to make way for the new energy.
You could also space clear every
morning just when you wake up.
You're going to
learn about sounds.
Say, you have a bell.
Just walk your bedroom,
or walk the space
that you spend the
most amount of time in.
Ring the bell to call in
fresh, new energy for the day.
What about if someone was ill?
Have you ever noticed
when you go into a room
and someone's been sick
it feels kind of thick?
Well, actually, in terms
of energy, it is thick.
Simply and easily, you
can refresh that room.
It's really good for
the person who's ill,
and it's also good for
you, when you're in there
attending to that ill person.
Let's say you've got a new job.
Space clearing.
You're creating a new
energy for a new cycle.
Let's say someone passed
on, someone in your home,
or a friend, or a family, and
there's kind of a sadness.
Space clear, especially if it's
someone who was in your home.
Again, this helps them
move to the light.
This helps them keep
from being stuck here.
Maybe there's been a birth.
You definitely want to
space clear the entire home
when a baby's been born,
because you want to create
a new energy for this new life.
So those are some
things and times
that you do want to do
some space clearing.
You know, growing
up, I never imagined
that I'd be here talking to you
about something in the mind,
body, spirit field.
But I had an experience
when I was 17 that
dramatically changed my life.
Now, before this, my
parents were scientists.
Even though I'm Native
American on my mother's side,
she was more interested in the
political rights for her people
than she was the spirituality.
But when I was 17, I went
out on my little motorbike.
We lived in the farming
community in Ohio.
And unbeknownst
to me, I was being
followed by a man in a car.
He rammed into my
motorbike on purpose,
and as I was on the side
of the road, he came back
and he shot me.
I was found by
someone passing by,
and eventually taken
to the hospital.
And in the hospital,
there was a point where
the doctors said I'd died.
I remember what happened.
I remember leaving
my body, and going
into this amazing
realm of light,
and music, and most of all love.
It was so familiar.
It made my life up to that
point seem like an illusion,
because that was the reality.
I saw and understood that
everything was energy.
We are not separate from
the world around us.
That in every moment we
are influencing and being
influenced by that energy.
There was a moment-- I
didn't want to come back--
but there was a moment
when I heard a voice.
And the voice told me
I had to come back.
And I got kind of yanked back.
I was homesick.
I didn't want to come
back from that place.
Got yanked back into my body.
And my body was really damaged.
I lost a kidney, a
spleen, an adrenal gland.
There's still a hole
through my spine.
Part of my lung was removed,
my stomach, my intestines.
I was told I would
never have children.
So a lot of damage was done.
But I believed
that the activation
and the understanding of energy
that occurred on the other side
allowed me to heal very quickly.
Now, when I got back, I
started to talk to people
about what I had experienced.
And they said, oh, it
was the drugs you were.
I couldn't find
anybody I could talk
to you about what had happened,
anyone who even believed me.
So I quit talking about it.
And then I met a woman who
was a kahuna, a kahuna.
A Hawaiian kahuna.
Kahuna's like an expert.
But she was a healing kahuna.
And for the first time when
I talked about energy, when
I talked about that I could
hear the grasses sing,
I could see colors around
people and objects,
this was normal to her.
This was natural to her.
And she taught me what I
came to call space clearing.
It's a word I originated.
And now it's become
ubiquitous in the field.
And through her, and through
understanding and working
with space clearing, the pain of
my childhood begin to release.
That feeling of being
isolated, being not connected
to the world, began to dissolve.
And I understood that this was
something that not only could I
use in my own life
for my own healing,
but it was something
that anybody could use.
>>LISA: Now, when
people do that,
and they use that space
clearing and the items,
have you seen their
entire life clear up,
or new purposes
found and so forth?
>>LINN: Well, in
no small way, we
are defined by
our living spaces.
They can affect the way
we feel about ourselves.
They can affect our health.
They can even
affect our finances,
when you're looking
at feng shui.
But when you clear
a space, simply
by using some of
these techniques,
and I love sharing them with
people, because they work,
it feels different.
Someone will walk in and
say, what's different?
Did you paint the wall
a different color?
And energy, though you
cannot see it, is real.
It's palpable.
If you start to feel like, oh,
my house doesn't feel good,
or maybe you had some visitors,
and they left and like,
you know what?
It doesn't feel so good.
And sometimes that's true.
Sometimes, there's something
called predecessor energy,
which is the energy of the
people that lived in the home
before, but residual energy.
If you've walked into a
room after an argument,
it can feel thick.
That's residual energy.
So you've had those
visitors and they leave,
and maybe things weren't great.
Here's how you can tell
when energy is not uplifted.
Corners won't look sharp.
Colors don't look crisp.
It's almost like there's
smoke in the room.
You will feel like you
can't breathe deeply.
The room will seem even smaller.
So there's a few
things that you can do.
One, is you want to
go to the entrance.
And people say, I don't
want to invest in a tool.
You don't have to.
You've got your hands.
Sound has been used around
the world for clearing.
So you stand at the
entrance to the room,
and it's almost like you're
allowing your awareness
to fill the room.
And call your ancestors.
Call spirit guides.
Call angels.
Call for spiritual help.
And then see, sense, imagine
the room filled with light.
And then slowly begin to
circle the room, and you clap.
And the clap sounds
muted, like this,
and I'm exaggerating,
that usually
means it's not clear energy.
You want to keep clapping
until it's crisp.
And it's the same with the bell.
If the bell sounds muted that's
probably, stagnant energy.
And once this bell is crisp
and clear, then it's good.
And you keep doing the entire
circumference of the room
until you come back
to where you started.
And then it should
feel really good.
Sometimes, have to do a
little bit more, if there's--
>>LISA: Is it because of
the frequency of the sound,
or is it the intention
that you set in the air?
>>LINN: If you just
clap in a room,
it's not going to
make much difference.
>>LISA: OK, right.
>>LINN: But if you clap with
the intention of clarity--
in ancient China,
they understood
the power of clapping.
So after a performance,
they wouldn't
clap, because if it was
powerful and moving,
they wanted to take
that energy with them.
And they didn't clap,
because by clapping,
you dissipate the energy.
Isn't that interesting?
>>LISA: Yes.
That makes so much sense.
In this next clip we have
here, you're beating this drum.
You have a lot of experience
with drumming, don't you?
>>LINN: Yeah, I'm a drum
maker, and a drum painter,
and I love drumming
for so many reasons.
I mean, if you
think about it, when
we're in the womb, the very
first sound we hear is that.
It's the heartbeat.
It's that rhythm.
And the drum beat can
connect you to all rhythms.
Because everything has a rhythm.
>>LISA: Yes, it's so beautiful.
No, it's a beautiful--
take a look here
at Denise Linn with
her beautiful drum.
Take a look.
>>LINN: One of the things
I love is the drum.
I'm a drum maker.
My husband's a drum maker.
We're taught drum making
workshops around the world.
And there's so many reasons
why I love the drum.
First of all, in pretty
much all native culture,
they have some form of the drum.
And it's the idea, it's
that primordial sound,
that primordial beat.
Also, it's interesting.
Scientists have found that it
actually changes brain waves.
There's particular
beats, shamanic beats,
if you will, that
change brain waves.
Every native culture uses
the drum for space clearing.
And in some ways, some
cultures, they say,
the male, the female, the
grandmother, the grandfather,
when you bring them
together, you create power,
you create harmony.
Drums are great.
Anytime there's dense
energy, oh my god, there's
dense energy here.
Use a drum.
It will clear it out.
If you don't know how to drum,
start with the heart beat.
Dissolve yourself
into that sound.
And then allow that
spirit within you
to begin to take over.
And don't say, oh, that's
bad, or that's good.
Or don't try to do
a particular beat.
The space will know
the beat that it needs.
The person will know the
beat that he or she needs.
You'll know the
beat that you need
for a particular balancing.
You can also move
the drum like that.
Just direct it, like you
did with the other tools.
Anytime you use a drum that
is made from an animal hide,
it is essential that you
go on an inner journey
to find that particular animal.
Now it's in spirit.
And you give thanks.
You say, I will
honor you forever.
And the same for the ring.
It's made out of wood.
Find that tree in
the realm of spirit.
Give thanks.
This thanks is very important.
Also, with all your tools,
when you're not using them,
cherish them.
The more you cherish
your tools, the more
they're going to work for you.
>>LISA: Wow.
So I love your use of
sound, of space clearing,
of clearing back into
your ancestral patterns
in order to really clear.
We've been talking a
lot about clearing.
So now let's talk about
going forward a little
into the future of creating.
And what are some of your
tips, and tools, and techniques
for creating into the future?
>>LINN: I have so many--
>>LISA: So many.
I'm sure, yes.
>>LINN: OK, here's a great tip.
It is project yourself
one year into the future,
and then write a letter,
maybe to your best friend.
Write a letter as if that
year has already happened.
And it's like
remembering it forward.
You write all the great
things, or you can even
get together with
your friend and act
as if it's already happened.
And it's so powerful,
because when
someone believes in your
dream, it's like, oh, yeah.
I remember when that happened.
I remember when you met him.
Oh, it was so great.
I remember how excited you were.
That is powerful.
Affirmations work.
They work, because they
reprogram your subconscious
mind.
And so simply just saying, I'm
strong, I'm strong, I'm strong,
that's not going to do anything.
It's when you say it
with passion, and belief,
and you use your body.
I am strong.
I am strong!
Change the emphasis.
And to feel it, the more you can
use your voice and your body,
it anchors it deep
inside of you,
and it becomes your new
reality rather than, I'm weak,
or everyone's stronger than me.
It becomes your new
reality by affirmations.
>>LISA: All right, you
have these great images,
that if you gaze into
them, they can actually
take you to a different place.
These are portals
that you've created.
We're going to show
you one of them now.
This is the healing portal.
And it's beautiful.
I have something very
similar to this in my office.
So how does it work?
>>LINN: This is on my website.
And for years, I
was a technophobe.
I blew up my first computer.
The first time I touched
a computer, it blew up,
smoke and everything, because I
the whole thing intimidated me.
And then Facebook and
websites, it intimidated me.
But then I heard this voice say,
cyberspace can be sacred space.
And I felt that to be so.
So I created this
healing portal.
It's on my website,
deniselynn.com.
It's free.
And you go to it, and
if you need healing,
you turn the sound on.
And I work specifically
with this image.
There are healers around the
world sending daily energy
into this portal.
And you can open it up
to receive that energy.
And if you feel like it, and
you're in a healing space,
put healing energy into it.
Every week, I hear
from people that
say, I don't know what I'd do
without that healing portal,
that mystic healing portal.
I felt myself being healed.
Some people leave it on all day.
They just turn the sound on.
Lots of people say
they see images appear,
which I just love that.
l haven't seen the images,
but so many people say,
I saw an angel.
And I saw God.
And I saw-- I'm like, really?
>>LISA: So have the directions
below them on how to send
and how to receive?
>>LINN: Yes, it's
all very clear.
It's on deniselynn.com.
It's a mystic healing portal.
And I love it, because
so many people don't have
the finances to go to a healer.
So it's free, and it's
available for everybody.
And if someone is
a healer, I really
invite them to come
and put energy into it.
>>LISA: Now, what's the
difference between the healing
portals and chakra portal?
I Have another one here
that says chakra portal.
>>LINN: Well, I also
have my website,
have what I call chakra portals.
And I work very
specifically with a designer
to come up with the images, and
I always work very specifically
for sound.
And the body has these energy
centers called chakras.
And it's not like we have
little balls of color,
but each chakra, each of these
energy centers on the body
has a vibration.
And the vibration has
a sound association
and a color association.
And when we get
out of balance, it
can be reflected in that chakra.
So on the website, it has
lists of all different kinds
of conditions.
If you're depressed,
if your blood concerns,
if your bones are hurt, it's
got all kinds of conditions.
And then you can look
up and see which chakra
might need some balancing.
So you open up
that chakra-- it's
so important to turn
the sound on-- and just
breathe deeply in and out.
And the one that you
have up on there,
that's for the crown chakra.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>LINN: And that one,
it's just to open you
to those higher energies,
open you to intuition.
Maybe if your intuition
is not working,
or you don't feel
very connected,
and you just feel
like life is mundane,
this can help open you to those
higher thoughts, those higher
dimensions.
So it's fun, and it's free.
And I love, love
being able to support
people, and especially--
>>LISA: At any level.
>>LINN: At any level.
Thank you for that.
>>LISA: Well, you
have a new book
out that's absolutely beautiful.
>>LINN: I do.
I do.
>>LISA: "Kindling
The Native Spirit."
And tell me about it.
You were really excited
about the practices
you've been making.
>>LINN: I am actually
really excited.
It just came out a
few days ago, and I've
worked on it for years.
And it contains a
distillation of what
I discovered on those journeys
around the world, spending
time in native cultures.
And what I found
is it's information
that is so valuable
for us today.
Native isn't necessarily
what's in your blood.
It's what is in your soul.
And all of our ancestors,
all of our ancestors
were native at one point.
And they understood how
to call upon and connect
to the spirit of the Earth for
healing, and strengthening,
and grounding.
They understood how to listen
to the messages in the cloud,
for example.
So it's got very
specific information.
You know, how to make a rattle,
how to make a dream catcher.
But it also has information
that can help each of us
find our way.
I guess that's the
best way of saying it.
Anyway, it's the first
time ever I wrote a book
and went, oh my god.
This is actually-- not actually,
but this is really good.
Usually, I think, oh I should
have done this or that,
but I'm really, really excited.
>>LISA: Yes.
>>LINN: And thank you
for asking me about it.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
Well, it's beautiful.
And I love that even
though I might not
have a native heritage, I can
connect into the portals that
do connect into the native
heritages, of others
or of a universal heritage.
>>LINN: It's more universal,
and it's also finding
that native soul within you.
Because we all have it, if
we trace our ancestry back.
>>LISA: Fascinating,
fascinating.
Thank you for that.
And for that knowledge
and permission, in a way,
to be able to explore
that, and to make it real.
Thank you so much.
You are such a wonderful, and
friendly, and approachable
person.
And I thank you so
much for joining me.
>>LINN: Thank you so much.
I love seeing you.
>>LISA: No, you too Denise.
All right, if you
would like to watch
my replay and my interview
with Denise Linn,
you can go to gaia.com.
And until next time, I
invite you, as always,
to stay inspired.
[THEME MUSIC]